Good morning, everyone.
I guess I go over here.
There we go.
All right,
I came here to talk about certificates
in Mac OS X and certificate management.
And so this session covers the usage of
certificates and the way certificates
are used and as well as keys.
And a lot of times people are
talking about certificates.
They actually mean certificates and keys.
The whole sum of things, certificates,
keys, and trust management, et cetera,
is often referred to as a public
key infrastructure or PKI.
So I'll be referring to it
by that acronym if you may.
So different kinds of applications
use PKI for different things.
The most common use is to identify
a person or party on the other end
of a connection and determine --
determine who they are and set up a
secured or authenticated or encrypted
transaction with that other party.
Some examples of applications that use
PKI would be on Mac OS X today are Mail.
Mail uses, since Panther,
Mail has support for SMIME,
which lets you send encrypted and
signed email to people on both Macs
and Windows and every other operating
system out there that has SMIME support.
Mail also uses PKI for its SSL support,
which you would use if you
were connecting to a secured
IMAP server or a secure SMTP server.
[Transcript missing]
So some of the things you'll learn.
We'll start with the PKI review,
and I'll try and explain a little bit,
just a really high level view
of what public key cryptography
is and what certificates are.
Then I'll go over our
new PKI related APIs.
We have a few.
I mean,
we had a lot of APIs already in Panther,
so we haven't added a whole lot.
But we've had some requests
for some new things,
and we've listened to you guys,
and we've added that.
Then there's some improved and some
new PKI views that we'll show you.
We'll talk a little bit about
keychain access and user bin security
and what some of the new things
have been going on with those are.
And we'll talk about root certificates
and how Mac OS X determines whether
or not a root certificate is trusted.
And I'll explain why
that's important later on.
And something else
we'll be talking about,
which unfortunately this didn't
make it into the discussion,
is the fact that we're working very,
very hard to get smart
card support into Tiger.
And there will be fully integrated
smart card support in Tiger.
So, and smart cards will be
just like key chains.
So, as you, when we get to that portion,
I'll go into a little
more detail about that.
And I'll also talk shortly
about what it would take for,
if any of you are CAs or
representatives of CAs,
to get your root certificates
included into either new version
of Mac OS X or software updates.
I have to get closer, I guess.
There we go.
So, here's the PKI review.
So what is public key cryptography?
I don't know.
Raise your hands.
How many of you need this explanation?
Or is everyone here a security expert?
So I'll do this kind of quick,
since there's only a few
people that don't really know.
So public key cryptography works
by you generate a pair of keys,
a public key and a private key.
Now the public key can be shared
with anyone out there and doesn't
contain any secret information.
The private key corresponds
to a particular public key,
and you need to keep
that private key secret.
The private key is kept secret by the
owner of that key on his machine or
on a smart card or some other token.
Public Keys can be used
to verify signatures.
So if someone signs
something with a private key,
you can verify what was
signed with the public key.
And private keys can be used to decrypt
data that was encoded with a public key.
So if someone else has your public key,
they can send you an encrypted message
that you and only you can decrypt.
But by itself, public/private keys are,
it's a really cool technology,
but the problem is how do you know who
a particular public key belongs to?
and I have to go back.
Right.
Well, the way we do that on Mac OS X,
and there are other solutions out there,
but the way most of the industry
has adopted is X.509 certificates.
And what an X.509 certificate
does is it binds a public key to
other forms of identification.
and in addition,
it's certified by a third party.
So it produces a binding of your
public key to some attributes about
the owner of that public/private key
pair and there's some other third
party that actually asserts that
that binding is correct or valid.
Well, what's in a certificate?
Well, obviously the public key because
that's what we're trying to
bind to this other information.
Then there's a number of attributes.
One attribute that's
always there is the issuer.
The issuer actually refers to the
certificate that certifies this
particular certificate or the authority
that has issued this certificate.
Then there's a subject,
which is a description of the
owner of that certificate or
the key in that certificate.
Both the issuer and
subject are X.500 names,
which if you don't know what that means,
it's basically like an
LDAP distinguished name type of record.
I mean,
it's actually a superset of an LDAP name,
but it's similar to that.
So it'll have things like the
common name and an organization,
and you can add all kinds
of different fields to it.
And it's really up to the issuer of
the certificate to decide which fields
they want to certify in a certificate.
And then there's a validity
period in a certificate,
which tells you from when to
when that certificate is valid.
In addition, X.500 certificates as
of version two or three,
or two and three,
can contain one or more extensions.
Now, extensions are arbitrary things
that can be added to certificates.
Now, there's a number of extensions
defined out there and a number
that are commonly in use.
Some of them would be a key usage policy.
There's an extension,
or there's an extended key
usage policy extension as well,
which tells you, well,
this certificate can only be used to sign
things rather than to encrypt things.
Or this can only be used for email,
or this can only be used for a website,
et cetera.
And there can be policy statements
included in certificates which
might contain a URL referring
to a website telling you,
you know, what it means,
what the fact that this authority has
issued this certificate really means,
or what the guarantees
are that they give you,
et cetera.
Extensions fall into two categories.
There's a flag on an extension.
There are critical and
non-critical extensions.
Non-critical extensions you're
allowed to ignore if an application
is processing a certificate and it
doesn't understand that extension.
It's okay to ignore it.
If an extension is marked critical,
then you must understand
what that extension means,
or else you should just not use that
certificate in your application.
There are very few extensions that are
actually marked critical in certificates.
Usually the ones that are are
crucial to the usage of that cert.
And then finally,
there's a signature of all of the
above information included in the cert.
And the signature is using
the private key of the issuer.
Now, since a certificate has an issuer,
there's essentially a hierarchy.
You can have a hierarchy from certificate
issued by some other certificate,
and that certificate in turn is
issued by another certificate.
The nice thing about certificates
being signed is that they
can't be tampered with.
If you have a certificate,
you can verify its validity,
and you can verify the issuer
certificate's validity,
and you can keep going up this chain.
So,
we call the certificates at the bottom
"leaf certificates," and the certificates
that sign "leaf certificates"
"intermediate certificates." Now,
eventually that chain has to end,
and that happens when you get
a certificate for which the
issuer is the certificate itself.
And we call that a "root certificate"
or a "self-signed certificate."
And the only way you can determine
whether or not a root certificate
is trusted is by prior arrangement.
So, in summary,
here's an example of a cert issued to
Ken issued by some other authority.
There's no real limit on
how long a chain can be,
although there are extensions
in certificates which can
limit the length of a chain.
So a root certificate could limit
the length of a chain to two or three
certificates or depending on what that
certificate authority wants to allow.
But so typically an application
validating a certificate will follow
the chain from the leaf certificate
back to a root certificate.
So, root certificates are also known
as certificate authorities.
And some, there's a number of different
certificate authorities that we ship.
I think as of 10.3.4,
there are about 84 certificate
authorities in the file mentioned below,
System Library Keychains X.509 Anchors.
You can actually manually add
certificates to that file by,
if you have a root certificate on your
desktop or somewhere in the finder,
you double click it,
it'll launch Keychain Access and
Keychain Access will allow you to
add it to the X.509 Anchors database.
So, if for example,
you work at a university or some
institution that has their own
certificate authority that doesn't use
one of the 84 that we already include,
you could download that certificate
authority certificate to that file.
So, you can add that certificate to
your machine and after verifying
that it is the correct certificate,
you could add it to your
keychain on your system.
And from then on,
any app on Mac OS X will trust
certificates signed by that authority.
So certificates are only half the story,
of course.
I sort of alluded to this earlier.
Certificates contain the public key,
but for you to be able to do
something with a certificate,
you also need a place to
store the private key.
Now certificates,
because of the fact that
they're signed and they don't
contain any secret information,
there's no real problem storing them.
You could store them anywhere.
You could store them on an LDAP server,
you could store them, you know,
as files on your desktop,
you could download them from a website,
et cetera, because you can always verify
their correctness and there's
nothing in there that you need
to keep secret from anyone else.
Now, if you take the certificate and
its corresponding private key,
where corresponding is basically
the private key that belongs to
the public key in the certificate,
we refer to the combination
of those two as an identity.
And in our APIs, there's actually a sec
identity ref object,
which represents the combination
of a certificate and a private key.
Now, in Keychain Access,
an identity looks like
something like this.
you'd have a private key and a
certificate that are paired together.
Some examples of some
applications and what they do.
So Mail, like I said,
uses the SMIME APIs for
encrypted and signed mail.
It uses SSL to receive mail
from a secured IMAP server
or from a secure SMTP server.
And again, in Mail,
you can actually view the
certificates if there's something
wrong with the connection,
etc.
It's delivered in Panther.
I think the Mail team is actually
working on some improvements.
And with some of the stuff Ken is
going to demo to you later,
you'll actually see some of
the new UI we have that will be
integrated into Mail as well.
Secure Transport,
something that's been around since OS 9,
I think, or in some form since OS 9,
is used both by Safari and
Mail for SSL and TLS.
It supports every variant of SSL, V1, V2,
V3, TLS, and it auto-negotiates
between all of them.
Since the 10.3.3 update, we also support
client-side authentication.
And because Secure Transport supports it,
then every app that uses Secure
Transport actually gets this for free.
Now, CF Network uses Secure
Transport under the hood,
so guess what?
Every app that uses CF Network also
gets these features for free.
And when we add Smart Card support,
every app using CF Network or WebKit,
which uses CF Network, will also get
Smart Card support for free.
So, now I'll talk a little
bit about the new APIs.
There really only are
two completely new APIs,
and they are SecKeychainItemImport
and SecKeychainItemExport.
What they allow you to do is to
import and export certificates
and keys to and from key chains.
and we support a variety of formats.
Pretty much everything out there
we could find that we thought would
be needed by anyone is in there.
So we can export to
raw open SSL with PEM,
ASCII, Armour or without.
Support PICSS7, PICSS12.
You can even import and export SSH keys.
So if you had an SSH key,
you could import that to your
keychain or store it on a smart card,
take it to another machine
and use that SSH key there.
- Yeah.
and there's some additional formats
that you can store either individual
items and some of the formats
allow you to store multiple items.
The import function actually can
auto detect the type of content
that you're importing from.
So if you're writing an application
and you're trying to allow,
you know, importing of arbitrary things,
you can just call import with
pretty much all wildcard parameters
and it'll just figure out what
the format of the input data is.
Or if you want to specifically
limit it to PQSS 12,
you can do that.
So here's a little synopsis
of what the calls look like.
They're pretty basic.
SecKeychainItemExport,
you pass it an array of items,
which are all keychain items,
which could be either certificates
or keys or some combination thereof.
Then the format in which
you want the items exported,
which would be SSL or PKS 12 or whatnot.
Then there's some flags,
which example of flag would be
whether or not you want it base64
encoded or PEM armor encoded.
If you're exporting keys,
you pass a pointer to
instruct with key params,
which contains some additional
details about what things
you want to do with the keys.
And then the last parameter
is you get the result,
which contains basically
CFData containing the exported items.
Now, this may or may not work
if you're exporting,
let's say, keys from a smart card.
If the smart card doesn't
allow you to export the key,
it won't work, obviously.
But given that the
permissions are correct,
the export will work.
Now, if you're exporting a
key from a key chain,
typically, because key chains have
access control lists,
the user will be prompted with
some kind of dialogue asking him
for permission to export that key.
Import looks pretty similar.
It has a couple more parameters because
it's a little bit more complicated.
The first parameter is the data,
which is again a CFData containing the
blob of information you want to import.
Then there's a file name parameter,
which is optional,
but that can be a hint if you
don't know what the format is,
but you've specified the file name.
The import function will use the
extension of the file name to
guess what the format might be.
Then there's a format parameter,
which is both input and output,
which could be pqsf12 or ssl
or whatever the format is
that you think the data is in,
and on successful completion,
that will actually contain the
format that the data really was.
Then there's an item type,
which is both input and output,
so that could be a hint.
You could say, oh,
this is a certificate or this
is a key or I don't know.
And on completion, you can say, oh,
this is a key or I don't know.
And on completion,
the item type will say, well,
this was a certificate or this was
actually a combination of multiple
items or this was a single key.
And then there's some flags.
The flags can, again,
be things like whether or
not it's ASCII armored.
On import,
you have this pointer to key params
again if you're expecting to import keys.
Things in there for import would be like
what the permissions you'd want on those
keys to be after they've been imported,
etc.
Then you can obviously specify
keychain which to import the items to,
and you can also optionally specify
a output array in which it'll
return the items that were imported.
So how do you import and export items?
Well, on the Developer CD you have today,
Keychain Access lets you do it.
There's an import menu and
there's an export menu in File.
So you can just go to Keychain
Access and do it right there.
There's also a command line tool,
User Bin Security, which has an import
and an export command.
And there's actually help built
into User Bin Security and
it's also a man page.
So, user bin security will let you do it.
And then in addition to that,
you could use the APIs that
I just explained if these two
options aren't good enough.
There's documentation.
I don't think there's
documentation on the WWDR site yet,
but there is explicit comments
in the SECimportexpert.h header
in the security framework.
So if you want to take a look,
that's on your CDs that you
received yesterday or Monday.
So here's an example of how you
would use the command line tool.
So in terminal,
if you wanted to export all
the certificates from your
login keychain in PEM format,
for example, as a PK-SYS 7 log,
you'd say security export, well,
what it says there.
So with that,
I'd like Ken to come up and show you how
to do the same thing in Keychain Access.
And he'll show you some
other things as well.
Thanks, Michael.
Can we have the demo on screen?
Thanks.
I'd like to start by showing you
some of the new additions that are in
progress to the Keychain Access Utility.
If you've had a chance to fire
this up off of your Tiger preview,
you'll notice it looks a little bit
different than the one that's in 10.3.
One of the first things you might
notice is there are now categories
over here on the left-hand side.
So instead of looking at all
the items in my keychain,
I can just look at my passwords
or just my certificates
When you've been using
the keychain for a while,
and I've been using Mail,
and I've built up an awful
lot of certificates here,
and it's kind of hard to find them.
So we've also added a search feature.
So I can look for,
if I'm going to send mail to Murph,
I can just type in Murph's name here.
And there's Murph's cert.
And I can look at his cert.
Maybe I want to see where
all the Thought certs are.
So I'll type in "Thought."
And you'll notice that it's
returning the certificates that
it finds across all the keychains.
So I have a copy here
in one of my keychains,
and I have the other ones that
are in the Anchors database.
So let me look for stuff
that contains my name here.
And I got some of my stuff.
I have a certificate here,
and I have my private key.
And as Michael pointed out,
those combination of things
make up my PKI identity.
So I can take advantage of that
new API that he talked about,
setKeychainItemExport,
just by going to the Export menu
here in Keychain Access.
So I'll select that.
And let's make a file called Ken's PKI.
And I have some options here.
I can export things as a cert,
as a PAM armor.
What I want when I'm exporting my
private key is to put it in a P12
file or personal information exchange,
which is actually encrypted.
So I'll go ahead and save that.
It asks me for a password to
actually encrypt that file,
so I'll give it a super
secure password here.
here.
Go ahead and say OK.
So we look out here and
it's created a P12 file.
And that's a standard format for
information exchange that could
be read by something like Mozilla.
It can be read on other platforms.
I can copy this over to my
Windows box and import it there.
Let's double click it and import
it into a different keychain here.
So when I double click it,
it brings up Keychain Access and
asks me where I want to add it.
So let me add it to my login keychain.
And of course,
I have to enter that password again,
which decrypts the file.
I'll go back over here to the login
keychain and I see that it's added
those things from the P12 file.
I can look at it and sure enough,
it's my certificate and my key.
So, let me tell you a little bit
about this certificate view that
Keychain Access is showing you.
It's a Cocoa view and it's reusable.
It's called SF Certificate View.
Now you have some
flexibility with this view.
Keychain Access here is just showing you
kind of a summary view with the essential
information about the certificate,
the name and who issued it.
But I can also open it up and
get a different instance of
that SF certificate view that
shows me a lot more information,
shows me all the things
that are inside the cert.
And I can choose to disclose or hide the
details and some of the trust settings.
All these things are
controlled programmatically,
so your application can use this view and
decide to show just a brief summary view
or the entire contents of a certificate.
So let me show you another
example of how you might use
that view in an application.
This is the mini browser,
which is a little sample application
that comes with WebKit to show
you and demonstrate WebKit.
Because it's WebKit, it is built on top,
as Michael said,
built on top of CF network
and secure transport.
So you get all these things for free,
like HTTPS.
I can go to a site that uses SSL,
and And this all just works with WebKit.
Let me go to the store here
and see if that will work.
Unfortunately, the little button I added
is not showing up.
So I think that the demo gods
are not smiling on me today.
Let me try going to a
different site here.
which is the University of
Washington has a web page and not
to single them out in particular,
but they're an example of a site
whose root certificate is not
part of the default set that is
in the X.509 anchors file and is
trusted by default with Mac OS X.
So normally you would have to go and
add that certificate out of band.
So we have a new view, a PKI view called
SF Certificate Trust Panel.
And what I've done is I've gotten
the certificates and I've put up
this panel with some text that
I supplied and it's basically asking
me for permission because it could
not verify the certificate chain.
And this panel has some features.
I can go ahead and disclose the
certificates that are involved.
And I look at it and I see, yes,
this is a site at the University of
Washington and it's signed
by their root certificate.
We've got an option here.
As I said,
normally the way that you would
go and trust a certificate is
out of band by having to add the
certificate into X.509 Anchors.
This isn't quite working yet,
but we're working on a way to
actually bring that process in
band a little bit for the user,
so they can just say,
"Go ahead and remember that I said to
trust this." So I can click "Continue,"
and it goes ahead and loads that page.
So let me show you just real
quickly what it took to implement
that in this mini browser.
I just went and added a function
or a method here to the sample
document called Evaluate Trust.
And the first thing Evaluate Trust does
is it makes a SecTrust object by calling
SecTrust create with certificates.
So I take those server certs that I got
back from the making the connection and
I make a SecTrust object which kind of
encapsulates all of that information.
The policy that I'm
interested in which is SSL.
And then the next thing I do is evaluate
it by calling SecTrust Evaluate.
And that will go off,
do all of the searching
for the root cert,
any other certs in the
chain that it can find,
does the cryptographic evaluation,
and returns a result.
And that results the interesting thing.
There are a number of them.
I can have explicitly denied
or explicitly allowed the
certificate in advance.
But the interesting error that returns
is a recoverable trust failure.
And those are cases where, for example,
the root certificate is expired or it's
not present in the X.Anchors database.
But this is something that
you can go ahead and override.
You can ask the user what to do.
So my method here asks
the user what to do.
It puts up a message about mini
browser being unable to verify.
And then it creates an
instance of this view,
SF certificate trust panel.
I set up the title of a button.
You have complete control over
the message and the titles
of the buttons that appear.
And then I just put up a sheet on the
window asking the user what to do with a
selector that will get called when they
dismiss it that will go ahead and either
load the page or not load the page.
And that's it.
That's all the code I had
to add to get that working.
So if I could have the other
slides back for a moment.
Could we switch?
Thanks.
I probably have to move
over here to make it work.
Yep.
So there are three
views that I showed you,
SF certificate view being the base one,
the kind of building block one,
and then certificate panel
that's built on top of that.
The thing we just looked at was
the SF certificate trust panel,
which lets the user make
a decision about trust.
One that I did not show you
was the choose identity panel,
which lets you pick from
multiple PKI identities.
And I'll get into that in a minute.
All of these are COCA classes that
have been available since 10.3,
but we're adding new functions,
adding methods,
and improving the functionality,
and also improving the look of
them so that they have features
like progressive disclosure,
where you're not pummeling the
user with all the information
in a certificate right away,
but it's there if they
need to look at it.
Here's an example of the one in the front
there is the SS Certificate Trust Panel.
And this is just a sample use in
Safari where it would put up a message.
You'd have the option to show the
certificates involved and then to
continue with the operation or to cancel.
So,
SF Certificate View is pretty flexible.
You can just show a summary
view with the basic information,
the name of the cert.
You can add programmatically little
turn down triangles that progressively
show you more and more detail.
And another thing that I missed,
but you can actually grab hold of that
cert in the view and directly export it.
You can drag it to the finder to
directly export a certificate file.
You can drag it to a mail
message to export either in
PAM Armor or not the certificate.
And it gives you a lot of flexibility.
That's all built into the view.
The SF Certificate Panel is used in
cases where you just want to show
certificates without necessarily
needing the user to make a decision.
So it's for informational purposes
once the operation has taken place.
For example,
maybe you've got a website like we saw
there where the operation was successful,
the certificate chain verified,
but you actually want to be able to see
that and know what certificate it was.
So you can choose to display just
one certificate or the entire chain,
and you can also add certificates
that aren't part of the chain
when you're showing that view.
There is a standalone
interface to that panel,
or you can have a sheet
interface as we saw in the demo.
Now the SF Certificate Trust Panel is
the one that you'll want to use when
you need to make a trust decision.
You don't have enough information,
the certificate chain was not
necessarily valid or maybe one
of the certificates expired.
There was some problem with it and
you want to ask the user what to do.
So this panel does all of the hard
work and the heavy lifting for you as
far as showing you the certificates
and giving you the tools to be
able to ask the user what to do.
Again, like the previous panel,
it comes in a standalone panel
or in a sheet interface version.
And you have complete control
over what text shows up and
what the buttons look like.
The SF Choose Identity Panel is
one that I didn't show,
but very similar to those in that if you
need to select from multiple identities,
and this is happening more and more.
For example, users have maybe a
free email certificate,
and then the university or the
company or some institution will
also issue them a certificate.
And so they could be signing
or encrypting things with,
they have a choice of keys and
certificates to do that with.
So we provide you a panel that
you can bring up and to display
the available identities and
to ask the user to pick one,
and then it returns the
identity that they chose.
Again, with progressive disclosure,
so you see the names of the identities,
and then the user can choose to show
all the details or some of them.
Again,
it's a standalone version or a sheet,
and you have control over
what the buttons look like.
So with that,
I'd like to ask Michael to come back up,
and he will tell you a little
bit more about the X.509
anchors and how they're trusted.
Thank you, Ken.
So I talked a little earlier
about there's the X.509 anchors
file on Mac OS X which contains
all the root certificates that
are trusted by the system.
We've actually started doing some
software updates to that file,
and we've been very careful
when we did the software update
to make sure we didn't just
overwrite the anchors database,
but we add the new anchors that we've
gotten approval for to that file
without blowing away any anchors
that you might have added yourself.
And that's also true when you
upgrade from Panther to Tiger,
it'll preserve the anchors
database on your system now,
which wasn't true going
from Jaguar to Panther.
So we'd really like you to talk to us
if you're a CA or if you somehow want
to get your research into the system
about getting them added to Mac OS X.
And the person to talk to
would be Craig Keithley,
and I'll put his contact information
up at the end of the session.
One thing I forgot to mention
earlier on in the session was that
Mail uses the SMIME APIs-- sorry,
the SMIME SPIs.
And the reason that the SMIME stuff is
still SPI is because we really haven't
gotten a lot of feedback from developers
asking us to make SMIME an API.
Now,
if you're a developer of a Mail client
and you want to see SMIME become an API,
I encourage you to bring that
information to the feedback forum.
So next up, smart cards,
what I promised in the beginning.
Smart card support in OS X.
There's some good news
and there's some bad news.
The good news is we're actually going to
be doing something revolutionary here.
Compared to any other platform,
the smart card support that
will be in OS X will be
horizontal smart card support.
It will be across the entire OS,
supported for-- you can use
the same smart card to log in,
to authorize access to certain
settings in system preference,
services, use it in mail,
use it in Safari.
You can use it for your screen saver.
It could be used in a server to
store server keys or certificates on.
Any apps using CDSA or CDSA-based APIs,
meaning the keychain APIs,
the secure transport APIs,
or any higher level APIs,
will benefit from this.
And we'll have single
sign-on with the smart card.
So you insert the smart card.
Enter your PIN once to log in.
And you won't have to re-enter
your PIN every time you do
something with the card,
unless you choose to.
Because you'll actually be able to set
access control list entries on that card,
which the security architecture will
actually fan out access to that card to
multiple applications and gate access
to it using access control lists.
Previously on Mac OS X,
we've only really had a few select,
vertical smart card solutions
that were based on PCSC.
Our new architecture
is still based on PCSC,
but the difference is we're
actually sharing access to the card.
PCSC didn't give you any abstraction
that let you support multiple cards.
It just abstracted basically the reader.
So you'd plug in a USB reader,
and PCSC would deal with
loading a driver for that.
But if you had three different cards,
you'd have to have three different
libraries in your application
to talk to those three cards.
That's all over.
That'll all be over when Tiger ships.
So here's an overview of what
the architecture looks like.
And on the top, the green box there,
is the applications.
I guess we don't get a cursor here,
so well.
The green box on the top
are your applications,
which are either sitting on top of
the Sec APIs or Secure Transport or
CFNet Perk or WebKit or whatnot,
which in turn is layered on top of CDSA,
which is CSSM is the API part of CDSA.
That sits on top of a new plug-in
module that's going to be in Tiger,
which is the SD CSPDL.
SD stands for Security D.
Security D is what used to be
called Security Server in Panther.
We've renamed it to Security D in Tiger.
So the SD CSPDL actually
represents a CSP,
which stands for Cryptographic
Service Provider,
and DL,
which is a data store library module.
You can think of the CSP part as
anything to do with cryptography.
Encryption, decryption, signing, verify,
all that goes through the CSP part.
The DL part is anything to do
with finding items or records
or modifying items or records.
So searching for a certificate or a key.
That happens through the DL interface.
Using that key to actually do something
goes through the CSP interface.
So if your app was actually
written directly to CSSM,
which I doubt very few of
your applications will be,
I think,
you'll have to actually modify your app
to be aware of the new Smart Card CSPDL.
If your app is using any
of the higher level APIs,
it won't require any changes.
Then SecurityD actually talks to PCSCD.
Now the only communication
really between SecurityD and
PCSCD is that SecurityD watches
for token insertion events.
PCSCD tracks the readers on your system,
so if you plug in a USB reader,
it'll notify SecurityD of
that and SecurityD will say,
"Okay, fine,
whatever." When you actually insert a
smart card into one of those readers,
PCSCD will notify SecurityD.
When that happens,
SecurityD will try and get a code off the
smart card to try and identify that card.
Based on that,
it'll narrow down to a selection of
one or more different TokenD instances
that are on the system.
So each TokenD that is on
the system can be seen as a
driver for a particular token,
and token being a smart card.
So each TokenD supports a
particular class of tokens.
So you could have one for
card for manufacturing.
One for manufacturer A,
another one for card for manufacturer B,
etc.
So SecurityD will then launch the ones
that are candidates for that card and
ask them to tell SecurityD whether
or not they support that particular
card that the user just inserted.
And when it finds the one that
actually supports the card,
it'll keep that loaded and TokenD will
establish a session to the card.
[Transcript missing]
So here would be an example
of a third-party token D.
So you might have noticed
you haven't seen PKSS 11
anywhere in this architecture.
Well, that's because PKSS 11 is
really not an abstraction layer.
It's more a library layer to
talk to one particular card.
So if you had a PKSS 11 library to
talk to your brand of card already,
it would take very little work.
Basically,
the part in your token D would be the
only code you have to write because
you already had the PKSS 11 driver that
uses the PCSC framework on Mac OS X.
And you just have to write a little
bit of glue code to transition
from the token D interface to
security D down to PKSS 11.
Those two interfaces are
actually fairly similar.
The security token D is the
one that's going to be the most
important part of the process.
So the security token D interface is
somewhat closer to CDSA than PKSS 11,
but they have very similar sets of calls.
And one of the things we're
looking at doing in the future
is actually making the Your Token
D box be part of Security Token D,
meaning that if you already
had a PQS 11 driver,
you might not have to write
any code to provide a Token D.
Although,
there'll probably be a little bit still,
because the auto discovery that we're
doing is not something PQS 11 supports.
So here's the bad news,
or at least potential bad news.
There are a couple of existing
smart card solutions out there.
Now,
all those existing smart card solutions
were vertical solutions in that you had
one or two applications that knew how to
load a driver for a particular card and
talk to that particular card or cards.
The problem is with the new architecture,
because we're doing single sign-on,
as soon as we ship a token
D that supports that card,
it'll automatically get loaded
when the card's inserted and
it'll open a session to the card.
Now, if the card is single session,
that means that your vertical app
will not be able to coexist with
the token D on the system because
the card doesn't support two.
Even though PCSC will let you do it,
the card won't support two
apps directly accessing it.
Apps written to the
higher level APIs will.
Because the whole reason we're doing
this architecture is to have cards
that can only do one session still
be capable of being shared between
multiple applications at the same time.
If this is really,
really a big problem for you,
we'd really like to hear
this at the feedback forum.
Because we have some ideas of things we
can do to potentially get around this,
but you would lose a single sign-on
when you launch your vertical app,
basically.
But obviously the best thing to
do is to transition these apps
to the new architecture in Tiger.
Because then you'd get support
in Mail and Safari and everything
and not just in that one app.
So, in particular,
the CAC cards and other cards
supported by Muscle will be
supported natively in Tiger,
so they'll have this problem
because I don't think any of
those cards are multi-session.
So, and again,
talk to us about adding support for
other types of cards into OS X because,
I mean,
wouldn't it be cool if you could use
Safari to do your client side off with,
you know,
your custom card that you're using
and mail to send secure mail and
log in and use your screen saver,
et cetera.
[Transcript missing]
So, for more information and
if you want to talk to us,
please contact Craig Keithley.
And with that,
I'd like to bring Craig on stage.
And he's the Security and
I/O Technology Evangelist.